(anonymous)# Everything in its right place: Leveraging AI in supply chain decision-making 

## Abstract: 

Generative AI tools have garnered signification investment by firms in the supply chain space, but a review of potential use cases suggests its utility is limited. Additionally, only 27 mentions of AI and supply chain topics combined have been included in company earnings calls in the past 12 months, most commonly in the consumer staples sector. However, the wider AI toolkit, including machine learning, does have value. At a minimum, the effective use of AI tools requires a robust data foundation including corporate enterprise and manufacturing resource planning, product data, external data feeds and more. Many firms lack the comprehensive visibility tools needed. Machine learning can help classify, clean and transform data for onward analysis. Commoditized, tail spend procurement can benefit from AI through pattern recognition and automated ordering, while generative AI uses in supplier negotiations are limited by challenges in nuance and reliability. Generative AI may be useful in more generic administrative tasks such as contract analysis — though care is needed with context limitations — and as a reporting layer on top of diverse datasets. The wider AI toolkit has a place in due diligence, risk mitigation, logistics visibility, supplier network mapping and product modelling, though these are not new techniques or applications. 

: 

Key findings Generative AI tools have garnered signification investment by firms in the supply chain space, but a review of potential use cases suggests its utility is limited. Additionally, only 27 mentions of AI and supply chain topics combined have been included in company earnings calls in the past 12 months, most commonly in the consumer staples sector. However, the wider AI toolkit, including machine learning, does have value. At a minimum, the effective use of AI tools requires a robust data foundation including corporate enterprise and manufacturing resource planning, product data, external data feeds and more. Many firms lack the comprehensive visibility tools needed. Machine learning can help classify, clean and transform data for onward analysis. Commoditized, tail spend procurement can benefit from AI through pattern recognition and automated ordering, while generative AI uses in supplier negotiations are limited by challenges in nuance and reliability. Generative AI may be useful in more generic administrative tasks such as contract analysis — though care is needed with context limitations — and as a reporting layer on top of diverse datasets. The wider AI toolkit has a place in due diligence, risk mitigation, logistics visibility, supplier network mapping and product modelling, though these are not new techniques or applications. The big AI question “How are you leveraging AI in your supply chain operations and decision-making?” is the latest technology question facing supply chain decision-makers. The question is whether the technology proves as foundational to successful supply chain operations as data-driven “control towers”, or as niche as the use of decentralized ledgers like blockchain. This report digs into the practical applications of AI-type tools across the procurement, contract analysis, risk management, strategic decision-making and market insight workflows. We’ll note that “generative” AI is not the only AI tool available, the limitations of such tools and most importantly the need for strong data flows and control before implementing more sophisticated analytical tools. Training, inferring: Who’s using AI for supply chain? One way to gauge firms’ interest in a topic is to look at corporate earnings call transcripts, using AI-type tools to infer topics and relevance. Processes and initiatives that are both endorsed by the highest levels of management and likely to impact the firm’s operations (especially financial performance) are often mentioned in these calls. Analysis of transcript data shows that supply chain topics were mentioned 21,294 times in the 12 months to Aug. 26, 2024 over calls from the consumer, health, industrials and materials industries. This is significantly higher than the number of mentions of AI in the same timeframe, at 2,029 mentions. This is not unexpected, supply chains impact the bottom line directly, where AI initiatives are in their infancy. AI initiatives for supply chain had an even lower total — just 37 instances across 12 months. The healthcare industry talked about AI the most in comparison to supply chain, but the mentions usually involved healthcare uses in techniques like diagnosis as opposed to sourcing operations. The consumer staples segment saw the highest proportion of supply chain-related AI mentions at 7.8%. One use case for the consumer segment was AI-led planograming, mentioned by Colgate Palmolive India, while Heineken noted the use of AI in the forecasting process. In Healthcare, McKesson noted “several supply chain use cases, including supply chain disruption predictions, forecast accuracy algorithms and fraud detection.” What we talk about when we talk about AI in supply chains The excitement over the application of generative AI tools has clouded the concept that AI broadly is a class of software that uses data to shape an output. Chatbots are not the only game in town. An AI system’s output can be descriptive, predictive or prescriptive depending on the use case, model and data used. Descriptive outputs focus on describing data in the past, identifying clusters of similarity, affinity and other features of a dataset. Predictive outputs try to use past data to predict future (or unknown/new) data. Prescriptive outputs focus on the why, what factors, trends or inputs caused this result, whether in the past or the future. The term ‘AI’ is often used today to refer to generative models (large language models, diffusion models) that chain predictions together, but also refers to the broader class of machine learning techniques. An example of this is a phone’s keyboard, which uses natural language processing (NLP) techniques to predict the next word you are going to type or are typing. This is ‘AI’ and uses a fundamentally identical input/output framework to the latest multibillion parameter large language model (LLM) — the keyboard model is just more specialized and demonstrates that focused, lightweight models can be effective when used properly. Therefore, this note will refer to models and techniques by their practical or functional names. Figure 1: Example tasks/models by type and class Descriptive Predictive Prescriptive Not AI (human) Charting, excel, mapping, writing Writing, intuition Writing, analysis AI more broadly Clustering, tokenization, vectorizers Regression, classification, neural networks PCA, network modeling, regression, optimization Generative AI specifically Large language models, diffusion models Data compiled Sept. 6, 2024. Source: S&P; Global Market Intelligence. © 2024 S&P; Global Before AI, a strong foundation is needed The effective use of AI requires a strong foundation of supply chain data. Suppliers need to be known, processes need to be modeled and shipments need to be tracked. Attempting to use AI to solve problems without this base leads to wasted investment and unrealistic results, and unfortunately, some supply chain 

participants have pulled back on digital transformation efforts , according to 451 Research. This overextension, disappointment and pullback is a symptom of failing to properly organize and ready an organization’s data environment. Tools for basic data engineering are already a known quantity, though a surprising number of firms have not yet created the “comprehensive supply chain visibility” tools required to adequately gather and utilize supply chain data (see: “ Supply chain specialists recalibrate digital transformation strategies as hopes meet reality – Highlights from Supply Chain Digital Transformation Enterprise Survey ”). There are also direct benefits to clean data management, not least of which in the digitized freight forwarding and shipping space, which has nonetheless taken years to implement. If data is stuck in legacy formats (paper), optical character recognition (OCR) can be used to digitize physical documents, allowing algorithms to access legacy data. This uses image recognition models to turn pictures of data into searchable artifacts. Further processing is often needed to turn raw document data into usable forms. Machine learning techniques can help to create a strong base of data to apply to more advanced methods. Companies already have a considerable amount of data in their systems that can be used to model supply chains — purchase order, invoice and delivery data that can be used to construct a supply network map. Machine learning techniques can be used to classify and clean data — extracting relevant information from an unstructured to structured format. Even though company data is often in a database to begin with, data from ERP systems needs to be cleaned and transformed into usable forms for analytics. These transformations often take the form of denormalization, as ERP databases are usually heavily normalized for performance reasons. AI can help with this by finding the most relevant features or extracting the text from fields to create new features. The two groups of techniques commonly used here are natural language processing (NLP) and principal component analysis (PCA). For solutions using NLP, systems can use a significance metric like TF-IDF, a derivative of text vectorization, or feed the fields into a generative model for extraction. As these are often used as preprocessing for other AI use cases, all these methods need to be carefully supervised to avoid errors from propagating through source data into downstream models. Linking is an essential process, and AI can help in matching two sets of data with each other. This entails taking the most relevant features of the data and joining them to the relevant features of another dataset. This can be trivial — some datasets have natural linking built in, think zip codes or employee ids, but others require additional processing. Linking on text fields can be especially difficult, as small misspellings or inconsistencies can be fatal to an algorithm, and so generative AI has significant potential to enrich linking workflows if proper guardrails are established. A likely form of guardrail is to combine multiple iterations of generative outputs with other techniques, like text similarity, distance and network analysis, but AI will always have a difficult time on low context queries (i.e. Walmart versus Wall Mart, Inc.). Five ways to use AI from procurement to analysis AI use case 1: Tail spend management in procurement At the heart of supply chains is the procurement process. This is where information manipulation can be most valuable and where there is currently a wide array of capabilities among industries and between competitors in industries. It’s therefore not a surprise that many of the attempts to leverage AI technologies in supply chain have focused on the procurement process. Needless to say, there isn’t just one “process”, rather there are several subsets of procurement with their own challenges. Tail spend refers to purchases made by the organization that are neither strategic nor direct. This includes a range of things from the inconsequential, like office supplies, to 

critical, like replacement screws for a machine. These purchases are usually made by functions like office management that have other responsibilities and are usually made in a pull fashion (the user requests a purchase). Contrast that with direct and/or strategic purchases that are usually made by a centralized team in a push manner (the material requirements planning (MRP) software says we will need this many widgets for our product). Therefore, tail spend is often overlooked and can be a source of cost savings for firms with significant overhead. Within tail spend management workflows, AI can be used for pattern recognition, automated ordering and time series monitoring, all using traditional machine learning techniques. LLMs may assist in automated ordering by providing a generative AI interface, but the underlying actions can be made by traditional automated systems. One application for generative AI systems that has been proposed is supplier negotiations. In this case, a generative AI agent on one or both sides of the purchase would talk to each other to reach an agreement. The benefit of this would be reduced workload for buyers, and potentially the promise of enhanced results. An AI agent built for this would need to have the capability of receiving bids, interpreting them and then replying to the bidders. The nuance required in indirect negotiations makes the use of generative AI for this most suitable for commoditized direct procurement. Poorly designed systems run the risk of over prioritizing price at the expense of quality and reliability, which are harder to quantify. They are also vulnerable to prompting attacks that could lower the fairness of the bidding process or accept a bid that is inadequate. The insertion of a human in the loop then removes the returns offered by the program. AI use case 2: Contract analysis An essential component of the procurement practice is the negotiation of purchase contracts. These can range from broad master service agreements to simple purchase orders. These contracts are usually first analyzed and negotiated by procurement, with the firm’s lawyers offering redlining support and final approval of documents. A generative AI assistant that understands purchase contracts could be very useful to preprocess documents, quickly identifying areas that the company wants to change. The model would need to be tuned to match the preferences of each company, and significant effort would be needed to ensure that models are prevented from hallucinating. Expanding this to AI-based negotiation suffers the usual issues, as AI agents are not able to properly understand nuance. Another hurdle is the context windows of models, which may not be able to always ingest an entire corpus of documents (multiple iterations of MSAs and purchase agreements) AI in this context is most relevant to indirect procurement, where the focus is handling complex differentiated products, as opposed to direct procurement, which is often handled by boilerplate contracts as part of purchase orders. AI use case 3: Risk management and supply chain visibility As procurement becomes more strategic in the organization, risk management has risen to the forefront due to attention from executives, global disruptions and pressures on profitability including from goods inflation and higher interest rates. As pressure grows to restrict the amount of cash tied up in inventories while saving money through leaner supply chains, due diligence work on suppliers becomes essential. The impact of a supplier incident on streamlined supply chain is greater than a diversified supply chain by definition, as more spend is concentrated into fewer companies. Diversification has fallen in the post-pandemic period, raising this risk (see: “ Footing the bill: Paying for resilience ”). Supplier management platforms usually focus on collecting data and information on suppliers, either through surveys issued in the name of purchaser, or via their own database. A variant on this is vendor discovery platforms that curate their own, often 

paid, list of suppliers that are required to submit due diligence information to the platform when signing up. Both styles have used non-AI infrastructure successfully, and data is usually highly qualitative, although some companies will provide supplier scoring. Machine learning may be used in the scoring process, but the use of LLMs to generate scores wholesale from raw supplier data should be questioned. Heuristic approaches, even if they use advanced machine learning, will be more reliable and explainable in the long run, as the generative model is only continuing a probabilistic chain of words rather than using logic. A more realistic approach is to use generative AI in data cleaning and processing workflows before feeding the data into a more straightforward model. The use of generative AI as a front-end interface to ask questions is also likely but can be replicated using traditional methods like page rank, sorting and filtering. The effectiveness of the AI search tool will depend on the use case, with higher ratios of text and language being preferable. The second tier of risk management comes from understanding the relationships between your suppliers, their suppliers and broader risk events. This is the realm of graph networks (see: “ Branching Out: Graph Theory Fundamentals ”) and supply chains naturally lend themselves to that format. Once a supply chain is mapped, companies can look for risk factors within their network. Machine learning can play an important part here, especially techniques using both network theory and Bayesian analysis. Nodes in the network can be assigned a plethora of attributes, each with probabilities, and changes and scenarios can be propagated through the network. Note that while this is certainly AI, this is not a field where generative AI is impactful other than in the cleaning and processing of raw data. In supply chain network applications, it is important to differentiate between logistics visibility platforms, supplier network mapping and product modeling use cases. Logistics visibility platforms focus on the movement of shipments across trade lanes and are used by cargo owners to understand the location and disposition of their shipments. This is essential for companies shipping goods internationally, and features can include the ability to predict the future of shipments or understand the implications of a disruptive event. Supplier network mapping is trying to discover every company that the firm has economic content with, recursively out to the final sources. This is used for due diligence, risk mapping and network analysis. Scenario impact simulations are a common feature, and this is where companies should expect to enter and get a high-level view of their entire supply chains. Product modeling is very similar to supply chain mapping but focuses on the raw materials for a specific product, instead of company relationships. This a deeper view of the supply chain, as it needs to incorporate how the product is made versus just who supplies components. Product modeling is complimentary to network mapping but has different investment requirements. The lineage of products are not always fully understood, and thus require domain modeling, or the number of products that must be modeled is too high. A final but important difference is that product models are natively time aware (production line A makes 10 widgets per hour) while supplier network mapping focuses on aggregate periods like quarters or years or looks at a fixed point in time. AI for these use cases varies. Descriptive network theory models can be used extensively once a supply chain has been mapped, finding bottlenecks or the most important node. Predictive models can be used to determine how changes propagate through the system, and what different edges or nodes would look like after a scenario is run. Prescriptive models can be used with product modeling to identify the source of delivery variance or margin erosion. Commercially available generative AI is not designed to handle those types of tasks, and using traditional machine 

learning is recommended. The potential for generative AI in supply chain decision-making is limited by the structure of queries and context windows — transforming a network into a format that is ingestible by a generative model is a significant lift, and a usable output would require extensive training. Risk management and visibility platforms are in a period of expansion, as companies realize that they need to understand and control their supply chains. Government regulations have also pushed solutions forward, putting hard costs in place for companies that don’t have a handle on operations. The EU has been a major driver, requiring companies to know more and more about their supply chains or face duties and fines across four major areas of regulation of emissions trading, carbon border adjustment mechanisms, deforestation regulation and corporate sustainability due diligence (see Appendix). Another major driver has been the spread of the use of sanctions and other trade restrictions used by many countries. These range from export controls on technology products to mainland China from the EU, US and Japan (see: “ Three speeds, one big hurdle: Q3 2024 semiconductor supply chain outlook ”) through to war-related sanctions applied against Russia. All of these factors increase the urgency for companies to adopt supply chain and risk management solutions. AI use case 4: Strategic decision-making Companies that have successfully mapped their supply chains can take the next step, moving into supply chain optimization and influencing strategic decision making. AI can be very impactful in these functions as data drives the best solutions to the forefront. Clean data and a supply chain map are a prerequisite, but as firms have reached that stage, they don’t always know what to do next. At a recent industry conference, one procurement executive said that they could model their entire supply chain in 40 seconds but were lacking the tools to turn that model into decisions. AI for supply chain decision-making can help companies sift through the noise produced by their network analysis. When using Bayesian and Monte-Carlo techniques, another layer is likely needed to interpret the outputs. This can be traditional machine learning techniques, like scoring the outputs using a defined set of criteria, or more advanced algorithms can be used. As with network modeling, modern generative AI suffers from context window limits and a lack of context. The cost of building and deploying such a system would likely not return any novel results. Like with many other use cases, the power of generative AI is likely around searching or discussing the data, rather than finding insights itself, as traditional techniques can surface the same results without the expensive training and deployment required by generative models. AI use case 5: Market insights Research and analysis of data for market insights purposes has two main components: the generation of insights and the production of language to explain those insights. Textual generative AI is based off the patterns that appear in natural language, and so should naturally be suited to help with the writing process. Generative AI tools can also be used extensively in the research and analysis stage, from providing incremental assistance to producing reports wholesale. Generative tools can be used as a ‘research assistant’ to surface ideas and sources. This requires a model infrastructure that is allowed to search the internet or other relevant and timely data sources. Because the sources will be qualified by the analyst, the risk of hallucination is minimized. Fact extraction, like used in data cleaning, can also help analysts. A model could be given a text and asked how many times a word appears, provide a list of countries appearing in a passage, or identify a passage as positive or negative. This can speed up analytical processes that require the quantitative description of text but care still must be taken to avoid potential hallucinations. Models can summarize the text given to them, speeding up the 

distillation of large blocks of text. This can help researchers quickly get to the key points in the text, as the generative model operates similarly to a PCA model, with the model trying to replicate distinct themes it sees. Like with PCA, care needs to be taken to not overload the model — text on the same topic works much better than text that encompasses a series of topics. Analysts also need to review the text as they would any other AI output, LLMs tend to use an identifiable, dry, style without any supporting details. Close human oversight of the reports produced is vital. The chain of thought the LLM goes through will not maintain a coherent thread throughout the piece, and the more text that is generated the higher chance of a hallucination is possible. Like most techniques, the applied usage of machine learning in specific, bounded, situations are more effective than using it to try and bypass large portions of workflows. Opportunities for traditional methods remain, however, with machine learning methods like classifiers, clustering and time series analysis remaining powerful for shifting through large amounts of data, creating correlations, then surfacing them to the analyst. The most effective research strategies will likely use machine learning methods to find insights before using generative AI to put the found data into human language. In conclusion: The use of generative AI in supply chain tasks is likely limited to certain aspects of commoditized, tail-spend management and generic administration tasks such as contract analysis. The wider AI toolkit has more applicability across strategic use cases. All require a robust data foundation, which many firms lack so far. 

