(anonymous)# It’s not just about shipping: Q2 2024 supply chain outlook 

## Abstract: 

Supply chains are in a permanent state of flux and disruptions, with the Baltimore bridge collapse being just the latest example. Logistics networks find a way to succeed, shown by Red Sea shipping disruptions where 79% of container ships now route around the Cape of Good Hope. There’s little chance of the causes of canal disruptions being resolved in the coming quarter, but supplier delivery times indicate the downstream effect is being managed and container shipping rates have more than halved from their peak. It might be too soon to judge the final impact until the peak shipping season starts with exports from China in July and August. Other bottlenecks to deal with include the risk of US east coast port strikes, with shipping starting to divert to the west coast. Political risks are rising in the remainder of 2024, with likely continued increases in sanctions against Russia and key elections in the second quarter including those in India and Mexico as well as the European Parliament. Looking further ahead, the US elections carry risks for supply chains connected to China, including those via Mexico. There are also risks to EU-China relations from the former’s review of the latter’s electric vehicle industry, which could start to crystallize with an initial decision in July. Supply chain regulations in the EU remain incomplete, including for the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism — where firms also have to deal with volatile carbon permit pricing — and the Corporate Sustainability Due Diligience Directive. The US Drug Supply Chain Security Act is also due to come into force later in the year, with imports of pharmaceutical ingredients down by 10% in the past year. Supply chain activity is picking up. While manufacturing new orders are still in decline, S&P; Global Market Intelligence forecasts global trade will grow by 1.8% year over year in 2024, driven in part by electronics supply chains. There’s an upside risk to activity later in the year if firms preempt potential future US tariff increases, based on experience from the last round of tariff hikes. Investments in supply chain resilience remain more important than ever. Spending on supply chain visibility technology is increasing, though third-party support is increasingly needed. Reshoring remains in favor, particularly in the light of future tariffs, and has occurred in a substantive way in 38% of all US product lines. Inventories and supplier diversification meanwhile remain in decline as firms seek to manage costs in a high interest rate environment. 

: 

Key findings Supply chains are in a permanent state of flux and disruptions, with the Baltimore bridge collapse being just the latest example. Logistics networks find a way to succeed, shown by Red Sea shipping disruptions where 79% of container ships now route around the Cape of Good Hope. There’s little chance of the causes of canal disruptions being resolved in the coming quarter, but supplier delivery times indicate the downstream effect is being managed and container shipping rates have more than halved from their peak. It might be too soon to judge the final impact until the peak shipping season starts with exports from China in July and August. Other bottlenecks to deal with include the risk of US east coast port strikes, with shipping starting to divert to the west coast. Political risks are rising in the remainder of 2024, with likely continued increases in sanctions against Russia and key elections in the second quarter including those in India and Mexico as well as the European Parliament. Looking further ahead, the US elections carry risks for supply chains connected to China, including those via Mexico. There are also risks to EU-China relations from the former’s review of the latter’s electric vehicle industry, which could start to crystallize with an initial decision in July. Supply chain regulations in the EU remain incomplete, including for the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism — where firms also have to deal with volatile carbon permit pricing — and the Corporate Sustainability Due Diligience Directive. The US Drug Supply Chain Security Act is also due to come into force later in the year, with imports of pharmaceutical ingredients down by 10% in the past year. Supply chain activity is picking up. While manufacturing new orders are still in decline, S&P; Global Market Intelligence forecasts global trade will grow by 1.8% year over year in 2024, driven in part by electronics supply chains. There’s an upside risk to activity later in the year if firms preempt potential future US tariff increases, based on experience from the last round of tariff hikes. Investments in supply chain resilience remain more important than ever. Spending on supply chain visibility technology is increasing, though third-party support is increasingly needed. Reshoring remains in favor, particularly in the light of future tariffs, and has occurred in a substantive way in 38% of all US product lines. Inventories and supplier diversification meanwhile remain in decline as firms seek to manage costs in a high interest rate environment. Logistics networks hold pattern in a new normal Supply chains are in a permanent state of flux and disruptions, reflecting their global nature and rich mix of determining factors including the physical, regulatory and financial. The recent container shipping accident in Baltimore, which has blocked the port handling around 10% of northeast US container shipping imports, is just the latest example of physical risks (see: “ Baltimore bridge collapse disrupts local traffic, global shipping ”). The prior most significant disruptions have come to shipping bottlenecks through the Red Sea and the Panama Canal. In both cases, shipping firms have rapidly established a new normal. In the case of the Red Sea that’s led to 79% of container shipping routing around the Cape of Good Hope in the last week of February 2024, Market Intelligence data shows, compared with 27% in the 12 months to Sept. 30, 2024. There appears little chance of the canal disruptions resolving in the coming quarter, with an end to the war in Israel being a necessary but not sufficient condition. Notably, Israel has still not achieved its core aims (see: “ Israel-Hamas war ”). Furthermore, the Houthis have indicated the potential to widen attacks to shipping across the Indian Ocean (see: “ Red Sea maritime risks ”). Presently most vessels are routing directly across northern Indonesia to the south of Madagascar rather than hugging the coasts. The US Department of Transport has updated its advice to shipping in the Red Sea region. Notably, this now includes a statement that vessels should “turn off their AIS transponders when transiting the Southern Red Sea, Bab el Mandeb Strait and Gulf of Aden.” A sign that logistics networks have “healed” around the latest fracture can be seen in most firms not experiencing delays, but rather expecting an inflationary effect (see: “ Just not now: Inventory levels revert to historic levels as Red Sea disruptions continue ”). The reduced risk of delays can be seen in the S&P; Global Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing supplier delivery times, which were better in March than in the fourth quarter in the Eurozone. Manufacturers in the UK have seen a worse performance but still saw an improvement from 

the February trough. Container shipping rates are already falling, in part thanks to the rising supply of container vessels. Rates for shipping from North Asia to North Europe were $2,800 per forty-foot equivalent on March 25, 2024, down from a peak of $6,000 per FEU on Jan. 9, 2024 according to Commodity Insights. That’s nonetheless still well above $825 per FEU in November. It may be too soon to judge the final impact of the canal disruptions as they have occurred during the traditional off-peak season for container shipping. A truer picture will emerge during the third quarter of 2024. In the 2015 to 2019 period, Chinese exports of peak-season products (including toys) typically scaled up in July before peaking in August and September, Market Intelligence data shows with arrivals in Europe and the US in September through November. In 2023, the peak was reached in July, though that partly reflects a rapid destocking process in European and US retail sectors, which dragged down the total value of exports. At a minimum, shipping decisions that rely on logistics via the Cape of Good Hope need to be taken and implemented two weeks earlier owing to the additional shipping times. Exports from China of non-seasonal goods may also be pulled forward on tariff concerns (see below). There are other potential bottlenecks, which may make themselves felt during the remainder of 2024, particularly heading into the peak shipping season. Transport from the US to Mexico has been disrupted by a mixture of protests (rail), immigration delays (road) and industrial action (see: “ Passengers before freight: Mexico’s rail sector regulations and capacity ”). With elections being held this June (see below) further interruptions cannot be ruled out. Disruptions in the South China Sea caused by friction between China and the Philippines are likely to remain localized, absent an escalation in mainland China — Taiwan tensions. Negotiations between unions and port operators on the US east coast to sign a new pay deal face a Sept. 30, 2024 deadline from the current contract . That raises the prospect of port strikes and disruptions, similar to those faced by west coast ports in 2023. That would come at the same time as the peak shipping season and comes with the added political complication of the US elections in November. Strike-related disruptions may lead to a diversion of shipping to the US west coast beyond that which normally occurs in the peak shipping season. Market Intelligence data shows that the US west coast ports’ of consumer electronics and leisure goods reached 49.3% in the first quarter of 2024. That was in line with 49.2% of the year earlier and the first quarter of 2019. That followed an increased share in critical fourth quarter, though again only to 2019 fourth-quarter level at 50.1%. There’s also likely to be continued inland cargo disruptions linked to both general strikes and other protests, as most recently seen in Finland, as well as further examples of supply chain strikes where pressure on manufacturers is applied via suppliers (see: “ Smart strikes: Finland’s logistics and supply chain disruptions ”). The corollary of strikes — higher wages via union-employer settlements — is also likely to weigh on supply chains via higher cost inflation, eating into funds for resilience building. The recent settlement in Japan is an example. Market Intelligence forecasts Japan 2.1% in 2024 from 1.3% in 2023. Other Asia picking up including China (7.2% from 5.8%) and India (7.3% from 6.6%). In US and Europe slowing but only to long-term averages from 2026. Political risks gather in the second half of 2024 A central theme of our supply chain outlook for 2024 is the steady increase in political risk for supply chains, expressed via global geopolitics, national elections and local regulations (see: “ The storm before the storm: 2024 supply chain outlook ”), which generate outlook uncertainty for supply chain decision-makers. The two major kinetic conflicts that have affected supply chains are expected to continue through 2024. As noted already, Israel’s war with Hamas is expected 

to continue with a low but not zero risk of regional conflagration, which would have wider impact on the energy sector in particular (see: “ Israel – Hamas war ”). Russia’s war in Ukraine is also expected to continue, with our core scenario being a stalemate with a 70% to 80% likelihood on 12-month view (see: “Russia-Ukraine war risks: Outlook scenarios ”). Sanctions and tariffs against Russian products by the EU are steadily widening, including clamping down on alternative routes and products, shown most recently in agricultural products (see: “ EU restrictions on agricultural imports from Russia and Ukraine likely to reduce farmers’ protests in one-year outlook ”). Other countries are following suit. The South Korean government has banned exports of EV and other lithium-ion batteries to Russia following new EU sanctions, according to S&P; Global Mobility. Exports of batteries from South Korea to Russia reached $17 million in 2023 from zero in 2021, Market Intelligence data shows. Shipments from mainland China rose to $315 million from $133 million over the same period while those from Europe dropped to $5 million from $46 million. National elections can cloud the planning process for supply chain decision-makers given the uncertainty for policies ranging across trade, industrial investment support, energy mix and resource nationalism. In the second quarter, three major elections to watch include: India’s elections run from April 19 through June 1 to elect the 18th Lok Sabha, with results due around June 4. Aside from indirectly deciding whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi will remain in power, the complexion of the parliament could also change. India is in the midst of active investment support in technology manufacturing, including autos (see: “ India’s fab growth: Computer chip supply chain investments ”) while also maintaining food protectionism (see “ Supply Chain Edge: Trump’s car directions, AIS off, AI memory on ”). Mexico’s general election will be held on June 2. The main policy risks subject to significant shifts in the event of a change of party in government are energy and security, while Market Intelligence expects a broad continuation of economic policies. All three candidates support nearshoring (see: “ Election implications in emerging markets: Mexico, Ghana, Georgia, Sri Lanka ”). The winning president will also set the tone for relations with the US, which faces its own elections (see below). Elections for the European Parliament will be held from June 6 to June 9. Several key EU regulations relating to supply chains, including the environment (see “Supply chain regulations continue to adapt in environment, healthcare” below) and disclosures, are in flux currently, with EP and nation-state approval pending. Looking further ahead, the US general elections loom in November. While the outcome is uncertain, the risks for change in supply chain-related policies are asymmetric, particularly in trade (see: “ Tariff tactics back in focus: US trade policy in 2024 and beyond ”). Beyond relations with China, there are also potential challenges for supply chains connected to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) region and the EU, including a potential refocusing on the trade deficit as a sign of economic fairness, or otherwise, should former President Donald Trump win. Not just China, also challenges for ASEAN and the EU. Market Intelligence forecasts show the US merchandise trade deficit increasing to $1,044 billion in 2024 from $789 billion in 2020, with the deficit with all major trade partners rising. Furthermore, the US has removed the rule preventing implementation of transnational subsidies, widening the scope of potential actions that can be taken — for example, if a subsidy applied by the government of one country benefits a company in a separate country. The “secondary flow” risk can already be seen in former President Trump’s comments regarding the flow of Chinese automotive investments and supply chains into Mexico (see: “ Direct and indirect: North American automotive trade 

policy in 2024 and beyond ”). Suppliers from China are already deeply embedded in Mexico, with China accounting for 12.5% of total Mexican auto parts imports in 2023 from 9.4% in 2020. The share from the US fell to 50.5% from 55.3% over the same period. It’s worth noting that the share of Mexican imports from the EU also increased, while the growth of electric vehicle production will naturally have favored Chinese suppliers given their dominance in batteries and motors. Aside from US-China relations, there are also risks to EU-China relations heading into mid-year, resulting from the former’s subsidy review of China’s support for its electric vehicle industry. A conclusion from the European Commission is due in July with a final decision in November. Press reports suggest that retroactive tariffs may be applied (see: “ Supply Chain Edge: Red Sea inventory fallout, smart strikes, fab spending ”). A negative finding, and application of tariffs, by the EU could draw a retaliation from the Chinese government, potentially including supplies of rare earth materials (see: “ Critical times for critical minerals: Rare earths and retaliation risks ”). China’s automakers are starting to preempt a change in rules, with Zhejiang Leapmotor Technology Co. Ltd. reported to be starting production in Poland, while Chery Automobile Co. Ltd. is expected to start production in Italy and Build Your Dreams Automobile Co. Ltd. (BYD) in Hungary, according to S&P; Global Mobility. The EU accounted for 37% of Chinese exports of electric vehicles in three months to Feb. 29, 2024, in line with the same period a year earlier. Shipments to the UK increased to 16% from 12%. That’s come as exports to Europe fell by 3%, offset by an 8% increase in shipments to the Asia-Pacific region. Supply chain regulations continue to adapt in environment, healthcare The EU is in the midst of rolling out a range of supply chain regulations in 2024. In the case of the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism, reporting compliance starts in 2024 with payments due to start based on 2025 emissions. That’s led the UK to review the scope and implementation of its own CBAM, with consultations ongoing ahead of its own elections, due by January 2025. Uncertainties over carbon prices are a challenge across supply chains, particularly for steel and aluminum, where the hedging of forward prices may be necessary. In the 12 months to March 26, EU ETS permit prices ranged from a peak of €97 per metric ton of CO2 to a trough of €52.4 and currently stand at €61.6, Commodities Insights data shows. UK firms face a further challenge as local market carbon prices have dropped from 100% of EU in February 2023 to 71% in March 2024. The steel industry is already reacting, as shown by Tata Steel’s decision to shutter its blast furnace capacity in the UK in favor of new electric arc technology. Notably, the Asian Development Bank has found that the CBAM will have minor effect on global carbon emissions, even if it results in significant diversions of global trade. The EU also has a revised, watered-down version of the Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive, including a doubling of the scale eligibility criteria and excluding firms’ downstream supply chain responsibilities. The revision follows complaints from the governments of Germany (which has similar rules already) and Italy regarding the additional bureaucratic costs for firms. In any event the regulations will have to be passed into national law to take effect, potentially adding another two years before they fully come into effect. The EU may also delay the implementation of the strictest classifications of countries under the Deforestation-free Regulation to allow countries in the “high risk” category more time to apply suitable administrative systems. In the US, the “Drug Supply Chain Security Act” is due to come fully into force in Nov. 27, 2024 after nearly a decade of implementation delays. The rules require firms that supply any pharmaceutical approach to provide product traceability. That comes as the US still faces shortages of over 

250 drugs, according to the ASHP. US imports of active pharmaceutical ingredients (based on a nomenclature defined by the EU) fell by 10% year over year in 2023, Market Intelligence data shows. That was the first drop since 2017, led by a 42% slide in imports from China and 19% from India. Shipments remain dominated by EU with 68.5% of US imports, while China fell to 11.3% from 17.5% and India to 5.3%. Singapore’s jumped to 8.2% but has proven volatile in the past. Supply chain activity picks up in time for peak season After an extended period of downturn, supply chain activity is showing signs of recovery, though the rate of growth in trade resulting from that is only expected to be moderate but increasing through the remainder of 2024. Manufacturing new orders have been in decline for 22 straight months as of March 2024, according to the S&P; Global PMI for G4 countries. They have nonetheless steadily improved since December to reach 49.3 (below 50 indicates a decline versus a month earlier), their best since May 2022. That’s been accompanied by a steady improvement in the export order measure to 48.0, again still a contraction but the strongest number since May 2022. That should also drive improving activity further up supply chains, shown by an increase in the quantity of purchases measure to 46.4, the highest since September 2022. While manufacturing broadly remains in the doldrums, global trade including raw materials and countries outside the G4 are experiencing a steady improvement. Global trade activity, adjusted for inflation, returned to growth in the first quarter of 2024, according to Market Intelligence forecasts , with an expansion of 1.4% year over year after a dip of 3.6% in the fourth quarter of 2023. That’s expected to accelerate through the year to reach 2.6% by the fourth quarter and 1.8% for the year. The recovery is driven in large part by the electronics sector, with 5.6% growth for 2024 compared with a 6.3% contraction in 2023. The capital goods sector is also expected to reach growth of 3.6%, following the manufacturing contraction flagged by the PMI. At the other end of the scale, the textiles and apparel sector is expected to slip by 1.6% and not recover even on a quarterly basis despite an ongoing period of destocking (see: “ Red Sea is the new Black Friday: Logistics disruptions’ impact on apparel supply chains ”). The evidence for a recovery in electronics supply chains is nonetheless still mixed. The AI boom is driving industry revenues up by 33% in the first quarter of 2024, or 9% excluding Nvidia Corporation (see: “ More than AI, part 3: The state and outlook for semiconductor supply chains in 2024 and beyond ”). There are also signs of recovery in global trade in semiconductors, with exports from South Korea, mainland China and Taiwan having grown by 14% year over year in the three months to Feb. 29, 2024, Market Intelligence data shows. That’s been driven by a rebound in exports from South Korea, led by the highly cyclical memory chip segment, while shipments from Taiwan are only in line with a year earlier. Yet, the PMI for electronics manufacturing new orders remains in contractionary territory, with all four tracked sectors (consumer, computing, communications and industrial) showing a drop in new orders on a month-over-month basis in February. An upside risk to supply chain activity may come later in 2024 if US importers choose to anticipate threatened tariff increases on imports from mainland China. Prior experience indicates a pre-tariff surge in shipping could add 20% to 30% to imports from mainland China in the fourth quarter of 2024. US Section 301 duties on imports from mainland China were applied by the Trump administration in four lists. Lists 1 and 2 focused on components, particularly in electricals and electronics, while List 3 included industrial goods and List 4A factored in consumer goods including furniture. Lists 1 and 2 went into effect on July 6 and Aug. 23, 2018, preceded by imports of List 1 goods having surged by 10% in June 2018 versus a year earlier while List 2 

increased by 31% in July versus a year earlier. Similarly, imports of List 3 products, which became subject to a 10% tariff in Sept. 24, 2018 rising to 25% in Jan. 1, 2019 jumped by 31% in December 2018. The picture of List 4A products is less obvious, with initial tariffs applied at 15% from Sept. 1, 2019 having been preceded by a 2% year-over-year dip in August 2014. However, imports had already been in decline and dropped by a further 22% in September 2019. There’s been an ongoing process of reshoring away from China for supplies to the US (see below on supply chain strategies) since the tariffs were applied, but increasing the tariff rates to 60% from 30% may not necessarily lead to a similar process in the future. Supply chain resilience strategies treat resilience as a luxury good The physical supply chain interruptions of the past six months and the political risks of the next six months should act as a reminder that investment in supply chain resilience remains important for firms from both a strategic and financial perspective. However, financial and physical data indicate that firms continue to prioritize cost cutting over long-term risk reduction, at least in the aggregate. There are significant differences at the sectoral, corporate and intra-corporate level that suggest more refined approaches are also being followed. Among key resilience strategies, technology investments and reshoring appear to remain in favor while just-in-case inventory management and supplier diversification are still seeing reduced investment. One major area of resilience building comes from technology investments. Supply chain digitization can also be seen as an important precursor for success in the other resilience measures already mentioned, requiring significant supply chain investments. A recent survey by S&P; Global’s 451 Research found that the technologies being most commonly implemented by cargo owners are focused on the infrastructure needed for supply chain digitization including cloud computing, cybersecurity platforms and internet-of-things connectivity. More advanced technologies including artificial intelligence and machine learning tools are becoming more commonly applied by both cargo owners and logistics firms (see: “ AI/ML grows in importance among logistics providers ”). The proportion of firms that have implemented comprehensive supply chain visibility has remained unchanged at 42% in the 2024 survey versus the 2023 survey, while the proportion that have schemes in the “discovery or proof of concept” phase increased to 41% from 33%, with a further 16% having plans for the next 24 months or are considering them, down from 24%. However, not all technology investments have been successful — for example some blockchain applications — or have run over budget. That’s led more firms to use third-party implementation services (see: “ Companies increasingly look for outside help in digitizing supply chain operations ”). At the aggregate, firms are cutting their inventory balances, likely a reaction to elevated interest rates increasing the cost of holding cash in working capital (see: “ Just not now: Inventory levels revert to historic levels as Red Sea disruptions continue ”). The inventory-to-sales ratio for the Russell 3,000 group of global multinationals dipped to 40.7% in the fourth quarter of 2023 compared with 41.8% in 2022, analysis of S&P; Capital IQ data shows. While that was still above the 40.1% of the 2015 to 2019 period, the gap versus the long-term average fell to 0.5%-points from a peak of 2.2%-points in the second quarter of 2023. The S&P; Global PMI for finished goods inventories indicates that the decline in inventories has continued in early 2024 across most major sectors. The exceptions were autos and chemicals though both saw a slower expansion in February than January. The inventory decline in consumer goods, machinery and construction have accelerated. The diversification of supply chains can be measured in part by the number of suppliers per buyer within a firm’s supply chain network graph. The average 

rate of diversification has fallen in the 12 months to Feb. 29, 2024 compared with the 12 months to Feb. 19, 2019 by 3.8% across a mix of 11 consumer and industrial goods sectors based on US seaborne import data, Market Intelligence data shows. The fastest rate of decline has been in leisure products (9.9%) and textiles/apparel (8.8%) among consumer goods firms, while in industrials the fastest decline has been in chemicals (5.8%) and metals (2.6%). The only major sector showing an increase over the period has been home and personal care with 0.4%. The lower rate of supplier diversification is likely explained by a process of cost cutting. Suppliers added during the 2020 to 2022 period likely reflected the need to add volumes during a demand spike. As demand falls — the average shipments per supplier dropped by 8.5% over the same period — then economies of scale dictate using fewer suppliers to ensure the best prices are achieved. In contrast to just-in-case inventories and supplier diversification, reshoring offers the opportunity to cut costs while also mitigating risk. Firms’ use of the strategy could accelerate into 2025, with moves away from China to other countries for shipments into the US in particular. There’s widespread evidence with China having lost at least 5 percentage points of market share of US imports in 38% of all products (measured at the four-digit harmonized tariff code level) according to Market Intelligence analysis. China’s share of US imports of all goods dropped by 8 percentage points (%-pt) in 2023 from 2017, with ASEAN countries gaining by 3%-pt and Mexico by 2% 

* pt. Among products where China has suffered the largest dollar value of lower shipments to the US, its share of computer parts fell by 48%-pt while ASEAN countries gained 8%-pt and Mexico 3%-pt. Major areas of gains for ASEAN countries including luggage (20%-pt gained versus China’s 35%-pt decline) and telecoms equipment (including phones and network equipment with a gain of 13%-pt versus China’s 17%-pt reduction. There are a handful of products where China has gained market share, though only in 6% of products was there a gain of more than 5 percentage points, notably including packaged pharmaceuticals. Chinese firms have several options including sales outside of North America as well as moving production to other countries themselves for onward shipment to the US — while carrying the risk of tariff applications being moved as noted above for autos.
