(anonymous)# Waiting for the Big One: Q4 2024 supply chain outlook 

## Abstract: 

In 2024, supply chains are experiencing growth due to recovery from 2023's inventory reductions and pre-loading for potential disruptions, but manufacturing growth has slowed with the S&P; Global Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for new orders dropping to 44.0 in September. Despite a rebound in trade activity, consumer goods sales remain lackluster, while early shipments ahead of US port strikes have distorted seasonal patterns. Global logistics networks faced numerous challenges in 2024, including canal disruptions, strikes and severe weather, yet have shown resilience with adaptations like those following the Baltimore Bridge disaster. Shipping rates have fluctuated significantly, with North Asia to Europe rates down 62% by the end of September, while regulatory changes, new shipping alliances and the continued threat of a US east coast port strike are expected to impact logistics costs and operations heading into 2025. The US election outcome is the biggest uncertainty facing supply chains heading into 2025, with both candidates likely to maintain elevated tariffs on imports from mainland China for economic and national security reasons. Kamala Harris's policies may expand export controls, while Donald Trump plans to increase tariffs to 60% on Chinese imports and potentially impose new duties on other countries. Meanwhile, mainland China’s share of US imports has fallen to 13.5% in the past 12 months from 21.6% in 2017 and could fall further. Regulatory risks for supply chains are also proliferating elsewhere. The mainland Chinese government has taken a more strident approach to retaliating against trade restrictions and may make further use of the Unreliable Entities List. Mainland China’s carbon emissions compliance scheme will cover more sectors, while the EU’s Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism starts incurring costs from 2025. Hybrid-political risks including the Middle East conflict, Red Sea shipping disruptions and the war in Ukraine are set to continue, with increased sanctions in the case of the latter. Corporations appear relaxed about supply chain risks, though the positive mentions of supply chain topics have fallen in the consumer discretionary and technology sectors. Supplier delivery times have started to slow for manufacturers while inventories in retail remain close to pre-pandemic levels as a proportion of sales. Long-term investments in sustainable materials are becoming more important, while the effectiveness of AI-related spending depends on effective data engineering. You can learn more about our supply chain outlook for the rest of 2024 and beyond by tuning in to our webinar on Oct. 17. 

: 

Key findings In 2024, supply chains are experiencing growth due to recovery from 2023's inventory reductions and pre-loading for potential disruptions, but manufacturing growth has slowed with the S&P; Global Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for new orders dropping to 44.0 in September. Despite a rebound in trade activity, consumer goods sales remain lackluster, while early shipments ahead of US port strikes have distorted seasonal patterns. Global logistics networks faced numerous challenges in 2024, including canal disruptions, strikes and severe weather, yet have shown resilience with adaptations like those following the Baltimore Bridge disaster. Shipping rates have fluctuated significantly, with North Asia to Europe rates down 62% by the end of September, while regulatory changes, new shipping alliances and the continued threat of a US east coast port strike are expected to impact logistics costs and operations heading into 2025. The US election outcome is the biggest uncertainty facing supply chains heading into 2025, with both candidates likely to maintain elevated tariffs on imports from mainland China for economic and national security reasons. Kamala Harris's policies may expand export controls, while Donald Trump plans to increase tariffs to 60% on Chinese imports and potentially impose new duties on other countries. Meanwhile, mainland China’s share of US imports has fallen to 13.5% in the past 12 months from 21.6% in 2017 and could fall further. Regulatory risks for supply chains are also proliferating elsewhere. The mainland Chinese government has taken a more strident approach to retaliating against trade restrictions and may make further use of the Unreliable Entities List. Mainland China’s carbon emissions compliance scheme will cover more sectors, while the EU’s Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism starts incurring costs from 2025. Hybrid-political risks including the Middle East conflict, Red Sea shipping disruptions and the war in Ukraine are set to continue, with increased sanctions in the case of the latter. Corporations appear relaxed about supply chain risks, though the positive mentions of supply chain topics have fallen in the consumer discretionary and technology sectors. Supplier delivery times have started to slow for manufacturers while inventories in retail remain close to pre-pandemic levels as a proportion of sales. Long-term investments in sustainable materials are becoming more important, while the effectiveness of AI-related spending depends on effective data engineering. You can learn more about our supply chain outlook for the rest of 2024 and beyond by tuning in to our webinar on Oct. 17. Bumper year of bumps: Supply chain activity expectations Supply chains have had a surprisingly bumper year so far in 2024, as a recovery from 2023’s inventory reductions and pre-loading ahead of potential disruptions have led to a return to growth in trade flows (see: “ Signs of a crest: US seaborne import growth slows in August ”). Looking ahead, the support from infrastructure-spending led manufacturing growth has slowed. The S&P; Global Manufacturing PMI for new orders dropped to 44.0 in September (below 50 indicates a month-over-month decline) for the G4 (US, Eurozone, Japan and the UK) as of the September survey, the worst reading since June 2023. That would suggest a downturn in activity during the rest of the year. Export new orders have also continued to decline at an accelerating rate and have now fallen on a month-over-month basis for 29 straight months, and in September fell at their fastest since August 2023. A recovery in the consumer elements of the electronics sector as well as the ongoing AI boom have been a major contributor to supply chain activity growth so far this year (see: “ Taking center stage: Data center supply chains gear up on AI spending ”). As of August, electronics sector new orders have been expanding for four straight months. Other sectors are experiencing an emergent downturn, with consumer goods, industrial machinery and autos/parts having moved from expansion to contraction since July 2024. On the consumer side of the economy, a rebound in trade activity has been met with lackluster sales and declining inventories. That paradox is likely explained by weaker manufacturing of consumer goods in major client economies (principally the US and Europe) while supplier economies continue to try to maintain growth by exporting goods ahead of demand. Chinese exports of seasonal products 

have increased steadily in the run-up to peak season, with shipments of apparel, toys and consumer electronics rising to the EU and US by 5.7% year over year in August after a 7.4% increase in July. Shipments have also followed a similar seasonal pattern to prior periods. While global trade patterns for consumer goods are close to normal, the seasonality of shipments to the US has been somewhat distorted by early shipments ahead of east coast port strikes (see below). An initial wave of early shipments can be seen in June and July when the sequential growth in shipments in 2024 was faster than in the 2015–2019 period, S&P; Global Market Intelligence data shows. A slowdown in August has been followed by a surge in shipments in September as firms seek to beat the port strikes. Consumer confidence conditions remain cautious, Market Intelligence finds , with purchase plans for big ticket items in the US remaining depressed. There are similar conditions in Europe, with the hangover from a period of elevated inflation and interest rates that are only falling slowly weighing on demand for imported goods. Strikes, storms and alliances: Logistics networks stay solid Global logistics networks entered 2024 facing a panoply of short- and mid-term challenges including interruptions to shipments via the Suez and Panama Canals, the prospect of strikes and the potential for worse-than-normal hurricane/typhoon seasons (see: “ The storm before the storm: Q1 2024 supply chain outlook ”). The resolution of water shortages through the Panama Canal and rapid adaptation of shipping networks after the Baltimore Bridge disaster show the resilience of supply chain networks — although traffic through Baltimore continues to lag earlier levels (see: “ Waiting for the return: Baltimore port recovery proves slow ”). Logistics planners are not out of the woods, however. The three-day US east coast port strike could return in 2025 as the temporary agreement only covers pay, and not the thornier issue of automation and only runs through Jan. 15. Labor action remains a challenge elsewhere, including Canada and Australia as disputes over pay and the implementation of automation remain areas of dispute (see: “ What to expect when you’re expecting a strike: US East Coast port disruption risks ”). As of early October, the anticipated heavier-than-normal Atlantic hurricane season has yielded fewer storms than expected, but at least two — Beryl and Helene — have yielded record levels of flooding, causing inland as well as coastal disruptions (see: “ Helene’s high water: Inland supply chains bear brunt of hurricane damage ”). Storms in the Pacific have also proven worse than normal and have resulted in decadal-record storms that are still disrupting supply chains (see: “ Vietnam’s flood related disruptions strain electronics supply chains ”). Heading into 2025, there’s a shift to a La Niña weather system, which is currently expected to be less severe than normal, but could nonetheless lead to a heavier hurricane season in the US Atlantic and wetter conditions in Asia. At the aggregate, supply chains have proven resilient to heavy weather conditions, though localized impacts can be significant (see: “ Logistics finds a way: Supply chain resilience in the face of natural disasters ”). Shipping rates show a tight balance after a rapid succession of disruptions and shifting demand. Container shipping rates on North Asia to Europe were down by 62% at end September versus the end of June at $3,200 per forty-foot equivalent unit, S&P; Global Commodity Insights data shows. There’s been a similar decline in rates on North Asia to east coast and west coast, down by 54% and 51% respectively. Additionally, the premium for shipments to the east coast rather than the west coast fell to $700 per FEU compared with a peak of $3,100 in July, likely reflecting the passing of the need for early shipping ahead of the east coast port strikes. Rates are still greatly elevated from a year ago when a mixture of inventory destocking and smooth-running networks meant rates were 70% lower than current 

levels of Asia to Europe and 54% lower on Asia to US west coast routes. That higher level may reflect expectations of regulatory disturbances heading into 2025. Looking into 2025, a foundational shift in network operations for container shipping is underway, with a shift in shipping alliances, implementation of further environmental regulations and the fall-out from a range of trade policy shifts, clouding the outlook for logistics costs within supply chains. The redesign of the big three container shipping alliances takes effect from Jan. 1, 2025 with the start of the Gemini and Premier groupings (see: “ Premier in league with new team: Shipping alliances face capacity control challenge ”). Gemini’s use of a new hub-and-spoke system provides new network design opportunities for planners, assuming it can prove timely and economic. The delivery of previously ordered vessels will add 20.5% of the container shipping fleet in 2025 through 2028, adding to 7.7% in 2024, Market Intelligence data shows. Should Red Sea disruptions be resolved, a further 6% could become available. At the same time, older capacity will become less valuable as a result of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme and the arrival of IMO regulations due to be adopted in 2025. Should older capacity not be withdrawn, a period of oversupply could rapidly emerge. Putting aside the outlook for tariffs and trade deals (see below), one element of US-mainland China trade already under review is regulatory action on de-minimis shipping. The US government’s proposed rules focused on imports from mainland China covered by Section 301 duties. A comments period runs through year end. The administration’s announcement has bipartisan support and backing from major trade organizations, with potential additional legislation likely to be considered in the upcoming “lame duck” session. The apparel industry is a major target. US imports of apparel and textiles under Section 301 duties from mainland China were valued at $17.8 billion in the year ended June 30, 2024, covering 75.1% of all such imports from mainland China. De-minimis packages ship by sea and by air. Imports of less-than-container-load (LCL) shipments from mainland China to the US surged by 168.8% year over year in the three months to Aug. 31, 2024, including a 105.5% rise in shipments of apparel alongside a 538.2% increase in plastic homewares and 298.7% jump in home furnishings, which are also covered by Section 301 duties. The big one: Regulatory risks from US election results The result of the US elections will be highly consequential for supply chains, setting potentially very different paths for import duties, trade deals and industrial policy. In the case of trade with mainland China, the elevated tariff rates and increased use of the measure both for economic and national security reasons look set to continue under either candidate (see: “ The US$80B question: Harris, Trump provide more tariff details .”). Vice President Harris’s policies focus on a “wider yard, taller fence” approach, with the mainland China trade policy focus likely to be to increase the number of goods covered by the export Entity List and Foreign Direct Product Rule. Former President Trump meanwhile has committed to elevating tariffs on imports from mainland China to 60% on all products as well as threatening increased duties on certain products — particularly in the automotive space — that are produced by Chinese firms in other countries. Mainland China’s share of US imports fell to 13.5% in the 12 months to July 31, 2024 from 21.6% in 2017, Market Intelligence data shows. An initial drop to 18.0% in 2019 can likely be attributed to tariffs — as seen in low margin consumer goods like furniture and luggage — while the subsequent decline may also reflect reshoring, as shown in mainland China’s sliding share of telecoms and computing equipment. Chinese suppliers have not been completely knocked out, increasing their share in 26% of products by tariff line — most notably in lithium ion batteries and pharmaceuticals — between 2017 and the past 12 months, 

including pharmaceuticals and batteries, the latter of which are now attracting tariffs. There’s also broad differences in the approach to trade relations with other partners too, which is particularly notable given the next president will be responsible for renegotiating the US-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), which covers 33.3% of US exports and 28.8% of imports in the 12 months to July 31, 2024 (see: “ Eye on USMCA: Canada raises tariffs on imports from mainland China ”) by 2026 at the latest. Vice President Harris may look to further harmonize trade policy with US allies, particularly in the name of national security policy considerations, though the potential for new trade deals outside the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework appears low. Former President Trump meanwhile has flagged the potential for tariffs of 10% to 20% on all imports to the US from all partners as well as tariffs of 10% to 15% on countries that are perceived to have depreciated their currency or provided other subsidies to their industries. Supply chain planners also face uncertainty about the future direction of domestic industrial policy, particularly in the automotive, technology and energy sectors, which may have implications for manufacturing investment. The effective implementation of such policies will also be a function of whether the next president has matching majorities in Congress. Vice President Harris is likely to continue the Biden administration’s “Invest, Align and Compete” strategy, which has yielded the CHIPS for America Act, with $61.4 billion of government grants and loans in the semiconductor space, and Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) for electric vehicles and renewables. The latter may receive additional attention given there have been delays to project implementation (see: “ Offtake eggs and finance chickens: Developing the US battery materials sector ”). Former President Trump has indicated any unspent funds under the IRA may be rescinded, though radical change in any of the mandated programs would require Congress to act. Additionally, reports suggest 90% of IRA projects are located in Republican districts. More broadly, Trump’s policies appear to center around tariffs for most industrial needs (“ Direct and indirect: North American automotive trade policy in 2024 and beyond ”). A hoped-for increase in self-sufficiency and resulting downturn in imports of electric vehicle components, including batteries, has yet to occur. After a downturn in early 2024 linked to slowing electric vehicle sales, US imports of lithium-ion batteries, permanent magnets and electric motors surged 15.5% year over year in the three months to July 31, 2024 to reach a record high as firms in mainland China sought to preempt new tariffs. Not the only one: Mainland China, EU generate policy uncertainties The mainland China government has taken an increasingly strident approach to trade restrictions being applied by the US, EU and others. In the case of the EU’s electric vehicle tariffs, the mainland Chinese government has subsequently — but not explicitly consequentially — launched investigations targeting EU pork and dairy products as well as a brandy review where tariffs are held in abeyance (see: “ EU poised to vote on EV tariffs, testing future policy ”). Canada has followed the US lead on electric vehicle tariffs, which has been followed by the mainland Chinese government launching a review of Canadian agricultural exports (see: “ Rapid canola reaction: Mainland China launches investigation of Canadian farm export ”). The next stage of retaliatory actions may come via the Unreliable Entities List (UEL), where the mainland China government has recently launched a review of apparel-maker PVH Corp. Placement on the list can jeopardize a firm’s ability to sell in mainland China and potentially work with Chinese suppliers (see: “ Undesirable outcome: PVH Corp faces mainland China trade restrictions ”). Asia-Pacific generally or mainland China specifically accounted for an average 14.4% of revenues of the biggest 10 US-domiciled apparel firms, which report data in 2023. The shift 

from using the UEL against defense companies, which have no Chinese sales, to a wider industrial sphere suggests other major US export sectors — and indeed those of other countries — might be at risk too. Firms operating in the steel, aluminum and building materials sectors will also have to navigate mainland China’s carbon emissions compliance market in 2025, with payments for emissions in 2024, according to Commodity Insights, after the government provided detailed advisories to manufacturers. The scheme is set to be expanded over time to include petrochemicals, non-ferrous metals and paper among others according to reports . Firms based overseas with operations in mainland China will have to take part in the trading system too. Mainland China joins the EU in having a large-scale carbon compliance market, which covers a widening range of industries. Paying for carbon in the former may reduce liabilities in the latter (see: “ The four horse riders of regulation: EU directives’ implications for supply chain decision-makers ”). However, mainland China’s carbon prices trade at an 82% discount to the EU’s on the basis of current scheme coverage, Commodity Insights data shows, limiting the potential competitive advantage uplift for Chinese firms. Similarly, the UK permits trade at a 29% discount to the EU’s, creating challenges for UK exporters. All suppliers to the EU will have to start making CBAM payments in 2026 for emissions on imports in 2025. That’s led Turkish steel firms to start working with EU authorities and counterparts to design emissions reductions and other measures to maintain competitiveness (see: “ Pressure rolled: Export challenges for Turkey’s metals supply chains ”). Turkish firms are in a particularly challenging position, with steel emissions intensity 268% of the EU’s and accounting for 10.2% of EU imports of steel and aluminum. Among the top 10 suppliers of steel and aluminum to the EU, which account for 67% of EU imports in the 12 months to June 30, 2024, eight have steel emissions above the EU’s level while for aluminum seven do. On a net basis, EU steelmakers have indicated that CBAM won’t help as it is only focused on “scope 1” emissions (i.e. direct emissions) rather than including power generation and other indirect emissions by suppliers to steel firms and customers. Furthermore, the ADB has previously forecast that CBAM will lead to a redirection of trade rather than a global reduction in emissions. Firms operating in the EU also face regulatory uncertainties from potential alterations to the Deforestation Regulation, due to be implemented in 2025, following a delay to the implementation of the Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (see: “ Complaints brewing: Pressure mounts on EU deforestation rules ”). The United Kingdom may prove to be one of the active trade deal makers in the next 12 months following a change in emphasis in policy under the new Labour Government (see: “ Deals and duties: UK election impact on supply chains ”). Assuming no major review of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement with the EU is on the cards, handling the EU’s CBAM will be key. That’s particularly important for the long-term development of the steel sector where new electric arc furnaces are being built. Trade relations with the US will be partly a function of the November presidential and congressional elections. A transactional approach to avoiding tariffs may be needed in industrial goods given the US accounted for 20.9% of UK exports of cars and trucks, 16.4% of aerospace parts and 23.8% of construction and goods handling machines in the past 12 months. In Asia, trade policies will need to include completing accession to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). Completing the long-awaited trade deal with India is a major priority given the expanding domestic market there as well as its growing importance in the electronics sector. The UK is expected to pull out of nearly 10 years of falling exports, in real terms in dollars, with growth of 

4.2% annually forecast for the 2024 to 2029 period according to Market Intelligence data. That includes a 7.1% rise in exports to India while exports to the CPTPP group are expected to grow by a more modest 3.8% excluding the impact of a trade deal. A wide range of hybrid political-physical risks, principally in the kinetic conflict space, continue to face supply chains during the remainder of 2024 and into 2025. Market Intelligence’s core scenario for the war in Ukraine is for a stalemate on the 12-month view (see: “ Russia-Ukraine war risks: Outlook scenarios update, July 2024 ”). A steady tightening of sanctions by the US, EU and allies is likely given Russia’s exports in the second quarter of 2024 were only 34% below the second quarter of 2022 thanks to increased exports to mainland China and India of 13% and 166% respectively. Most products have fallen by around a third, including a 35% drop in energy and 45% in metals, while agriculture fell by just 9%. It’s also worth noting that exports were similar to 2021 second-quarter levels. While conflict in the Middle East has technically escalated with Israel’s ground assaults into Lebanon, Market Intelligence’s assessment is that Iran may be unwilling to become directly involved (see: “ MENA regional conflict ”). Assuming no regional escalation and resulting impact on oil exports, and absent heavy strikes against Israel’s port or manufacturing infrastructure, particularly in semiconductors, the impact on global supply chains may be small. No matter the outcome of conflict in the Middle East, the potential for long-term disruptions in the Red Sea remains high as a result of the Houthis in Yemen looking to build domestic and international influence (see: “ Red Sea maritime risks ”). South China Sea disputes are likely to remain localized non-military confrontations as long as they remain limited to the control of maritime features and resource extraction involving mainland China and Southeast Asian claimants (see: “ South China Sea dispute: Current situation and escalation outlook ”). Luxury for goods: Resilience and sustainability investments An intense focus by corporations on building supply chain resilience and sustainability has died back over the past two years, raising the risk that individual firms may be caught out by localized risks, never mind the more generalized challenges outlined so far. The balance of positive versus negative mentions of supply chain impacts on cash flow and profitability (e.g. product availability, delivery times, inventory levels) reached its highest since the second quarter of 2017 during the third quarter of 2024. Not all sectors have seen an improvement, however, with net positive attitudes dipping quarter over quarter in consumer discretionary and technology firms. In the case of technology firms that was due to the lowest level of positive mentions since the third quarter of 2010, possibly reflecting availability of AI-related products. While company earnings comments are both forward- and backward-looking, they are only updated on a quarterly basis. As such they can be quickly overcome by events such as the US east coast port strike or extreme weather events noted above. Manufacturers’ supplier delivery times, measured by the S&P; Global PMI, have started to slow since June globally. In Europe, UK delivery times slowed at their fastest rate since January 2024 in September 2024, while Eurozone deliveries slowed for the first time since January. Shipments in Asia are also slowing, with mainland Chinese deliveries now facing delays since June. The US meanwhile is experiencing accelerating delivery times, with a PMI of 51.5 (under 50 indicates slowing deliveries) being the fastest since February and suggesting rushed deliveries ahead of the east coast port strikes. Another sign of a reduced level of concern regarding supply chain interruptions can be seen in retailers’ inventories. Manufacturers’ stocks of finished goods have continued to increase in absolute terms — the US manufacturing PMI for consumer goods finished goods was 52.6 in September 2024 and has been above 50 (indicating 

expansion) since April 2024. However, retailers’ inventories as a ratio of their sales have returned close to pre-pandemic levels, indicating little change in strategy at the aggregate. Inventories held by furniture, electronics and electrical retailers in the US were 1.55x sales in August 2024, down from a high of 1.72x in March and in line with 1.57x averaged in 2019. Similarly, apparel retailers’ 2.29x in September 2024 compares with 2.42x averaged in 2019. The outlier has been building materials firms at 1.93x compared with 1.84x in 2019, though that may reflect weaker-than-expected sales as well as deliberate inventory decisions (see: “ Supply Chain Edge: Back-to-school sprint, CS3D risks, Pixel’s focus ”). Firms have sought to invest in supply chain efficiency as well as by cutting costs. Generative AI tools have garnered signification investment by firms in the supply chain space, but a review of potential use cases suggests its utility is limited. There have only been 27 mentions of AI and supply chain topics combined have been included in company earnings calls in the past 12 months, most commonly in the consumer staples sector. However, the wider AI toolkit, including machine learning, does have value (see: “ Everything in its right place: Leveraging AI in supply chain decision-making ”). At a minimum, the effective use of AI tools requires a robust data foundation including corporate enterprise and manufacturing resource planning, product data, external data feeds and more. Many firms lack the comprehensive visibility tools needed. Machine learning can help classify, clean and transform data for onward analysis. Commoditized, tail spend procurement can benefit from AI through pattern recognition and automated ordering, while generative AI uses in supplier negotiations are limited by challenges in nuance and reliability. Generative AI may be useful in more generic administrative tasks such as contract analysis — though care is needed with context limitations — and as a reporting layer on top of diverse datasets. The wider AI toolkit has a place in due diligence, risk mitigation, logistics visibility, supplier network mapping and product modelling, though these are not new techniques or applications. Investments in supply chain sustainability are also picking up, in part in response to regulations (see above) as well as for brand reasons and resilience considerations. The plastics industry more broadly is having to deal with a range of environmental supply chain issues including waste management, toxicity and greenhouse gas emissions, but solutions have proven challenging to deliver. Over the longer term, a shift to non-fossil fuels and circular supply chains has yet to be proven to be technically or economically possible, though market leaders including Lego A/S are pushing ahead with investments. The use of green methanol for bioplastics at a new plastics factory may increase demand for the fuel, which is a part of AP Møller Holding’s shipping line Maersk’s environmental strategy but faces supply-side challenges. Co-locating a large bioplastics plant and methanol bunkering plant at Antwerp may offer economies of scale for the firm (see: “T wo uses for methanol: Møller’s plastic supply chain investment ”). In the near term, recycling provides an alternative set of feedstocks in some elements of the supply chain, albeit at a higher cost, though import regulations across Asia may limit the opportunity for exports from North America and Europe. Prices for recycled plastics have collapsed over the 2021 to 2023 period, with Market Intelligence estimates calling for prices for Asian low- and high-density polyethylene recyclates to increase by 2.9% and 1.9 % respectively in the first quarter of 2025 versus the second quarter of 2024. This report was updated on Oct. 4 to reflect the temporary agreement reached between the ILA union and port workers. 

