(anonymous)# Gates reopening: Semiconductor supply chain outlook 

## Abstract: 

Analysis of the semiconductor industry using supply chain, macroeconomic and financial data as well as review of 38 companies’ comments augmented with NLP analysis of earnings transcripts shows an upward inflection point in supply chain activity is close but would not fully arrive until well into 2024. Macroeconomic data suggests the downturn in demand is still ongoing. The S&P; Global PMI for electronics equipment orders continued to decline in 15 of the past 16 months while exports of computer chips from the largest four exporting regions fell by 9% in October. On a brighter note, consensus earnings forecasts indicate a recovery in revenue from the fourth quarter (excluding Nvidia Corporation’s AI boom) before accelerating to 10% in the second quarter of 2024 excluding Nvidia. The large computer and phone producers are seeing a stabilization in demand during the fourth quarter of 2023 with a recovery in early 2024. The connected devices and peripherals sector is still in a recovery phase, with a stabilization in the final quarter of 2023 including inventories, which are ending a period of downward correction. Growth in 2024 is in part reliant on new products as well as a renewal cycle for equipment bought during the pandemic era. The decline in demand for chips has been accompanied by a run-up in inventories. Several firms expect a recovery in demand to help offset the higher inventories. NLP-based analysis of earnings call transcripts shows the proportion of firms making negative statements about inventories fell to 52% in the fourth quarter of 2023 from 84% in the first quarter of 2022. A detailed review of comments by over 20 semiconductor producing firms shows many of the companies — both in production and fabless models — expect demand to only catch up with supply and inventories in 2024. Average South Korean semiconductor prices fell by 29% in the third quarter of 2023 versus the second quarter of 2022. They are expected to fall further in 2024 before recovering in 2025, S&P; Global Market Intelligence estimates show. Suppliers of chemicals and bonding materials to the semiconductor sector have suffered from a period of destocking, which has now stabilized with some signs of growth returning. The chipmaking equipment firms expect orders and sales to restart only cautiously during 2024. 

: 

Key findings Analysis of the semiconductor industry using supply chain, macroeconomic and financial data as well as review of 38 companies’ comments augmented with NLP analysis of earnings transcripts shows an upward inflection point in supply chain activity is close but would not fully arrive until well into 2024. Macroeconomic data suggests the downturn in demand is still ongoing. The S&P; Global PMI for electronics equipment orders continued to decline in 15 of the past 16 months while exports of computer chips from the largest four exporting regions fell by 9% in October. On a brighter note, consensus earnings forecasts indicate a recovery in revenue from the fourth quarter (excluding Nvidia Corporation’s AI boom) before accelerating to 10% in the second quarter of 2024 excluding Nvidia. The large computer and phone producers are seeing a stabilization in demand during the fourth quarter of 2023 with a recovery in early 2024. The connected devices and peripherals sector is still in a recovery phase, with a stabilization in the final quarter of 2023 including inventories, which are ending a period of downward correction. Growth in 2024 is in part reliant on new products as well as a renewal cycle for equipment bought during the pandemic era. The decline in demand for chips has been accompanied by a run-up in inventories. Several firms expect a recovery in demand to help offset the higher inventories. NLP-based analysis of earnings call transcripts shows the proportion of firms making negative statements about inventories fell to 52% in the fourth quarter of 2023 from 84% in the first quarter of 2022. A detailed review of comments by over 20 semiconductor producing firms shows many of the companies — both in production and fabless models — expect demand to only catch up with supply and inventories in 2024. Average South Korean semiconductor prices fell by 29% in the third quarter of 2023 versus the second quarter of 2022. They are expected to fall further in 2024 before recovering in 2025, S&P; Global Market Intelligence estimates show. Suppliers of chemicals and bonding materials to the semiconductor sector have suffered from a period of destocking, which has now stabilized with some signs of growth returning. The chipmaking equipment firms expect orders and sales to restart only cautiously during 2024. Semiconductors lie at the heart of supply chains ranging from computers and phones to autos and manufacturing equipment. Activity in the sector can therefore be a guide to wider supply chain activity — indeed the shortages of chips during the pandemic were emblematic of how supply chains can fail under stress. Yet, the past 18 months have generally been a time of downturn for the semiconductor industry despite elevated demand for artificial intelligence (AI) applications. Our May 2023 review of data and commentary in the sector, “ Microchips ahoy: Signs of recovery in semiconductor supply chains ,” showed a recovery in activity could come late in 2023. The latest data, including analytics based on supply chain activity measures, macroeconomic data, financial forecasts and both manual and natural language processing of earnings calls shows the sector is close to an upward inflection point but that it would not fully arrive until well into 2024. Downturn persists: Macroeconomic data New orders for electronic equipment manufacturers have been in decline for 15 of the past 16 months as of October 2023, S&P; Global PMI survey data shows. The rate of decline in new orders has been fastest in computing and industrial equipment, while consumer and communications are experiencing a slower rate of decline. Only consumer equipment has improved steadily in the past three months. Computing slumped in October to the lowest since December 2022. That’s had an upstream impact on suppliers, including semiconductors, with the quantity of purchases also in decline. The quantity of purchases in the electronic industrial equipment sector fell to its lowest since May 2020 in October. The downturn in demand from the electronics sector can also be seen in the exports of semiconductors from the big four exporting regions of mainland China, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan. Exports from the four combined fell by 9% year over year in October 2023 according to Market Intelligence data, similar to the 7% drop in September and 10% decline in August. That supports the evidence from the PMI data for electronic equipment purchases and may indicate a recovery from the slowdown has stalled. One bright spot is exports from South Korea, which only fell by 7% after 12 months of double-digit declines. Market Intelligence data shows shipments of memory chips fell by 5%, while processors dropped by 10%. By contrast, exports from mainland China dropped by 17%, the fastest rate of decline since July 2023. Consensus financial revenue forecasts, 

gathered via S&P; Capital IQ, indicate the recovery in year-over-year demand growth in the third quarter of 2023 is expected to accelerate into the second quarter of 2024. The revenues of the 10 largest US-quoted chip manufacturers increased by 7% year over year in the third quarter, though that was led by Nvidia Corporation’s 206% growth. Excluding Nvidia, revenues fell by 12%. The processor specialists, including Nvidia, rose fastest while communications chipmakers increased fell by 12% and others including memory and industrial specialists fell by 21%. Analysts’ forecasts for the group call for a recovery to growth of 2% year over year in the fourth quarter excluding Nvidia before rising by 7% in the first quarter. Growth including Nvidia may slow to 20% in the second quarter, while the group excluding Nvidia will accelerate to 10% growth. Starting to stabilize: Device makers’ comments A detailed review of earnings conference call transcripts shows the major computer and phone producers are generally expecting the market for PCs and phones to start to stabilize during the fourth quarter of 2023 with a return to growth in early 2024. Apple Inc. expects revenues in the three months to the end of December to be “similar to last year” with growth in iPhones and a decline elsewhere, in part due to product refresh timing. It’s worth noting that the non-standard nature of Apple’s year-end means the final quarter of this year has one extra week than a year earlier, cutting revenues by 7%. Apple supplier Hon Hai Precision Technology Group is more pessimistic as “the unfavorable market environment this year (means) demand for many industries is weaker than last year.” As such it “still expect(s) a year-over-year decline” in the fourth quarter of 2023 across smart devices, networking and computing products. Looking further ahead the firm maintains “a relatively neutral outlook for ICT for next year.” Lenovo Group Limited, by contrast, stated that “the stabilizing global PC market is poised for year-on-year recovery in late 2023,” including the start of “the commercial upgrade cycle” by businesses. The mobile phone sector is expected to benefit from “record 5G adoption” as phone buyers look for higher bandwidth handsets. Server manufacturer Super Micro Computer, Inc. upgraded its outlook, as its “supply from (processor maker) NVIDIA will be much better than last quarter. It nonetheless remains vigilant regarding “supply chain constraints, especially for leading AI platforms.” The firm is also cutting its cost as it looks to “transition more manufacturing over to Malaysia and Taiwan.” HP Inc. reported a 6.5% drop in revenues in the three months to Oct. 31, 2023 in part due to weakness in demand in mainland China as well as “commercial customers remain(ing) cautious.” The company is seeing demand from the latter group beginning stabilize, which “gives us confidence that the PC market will grow in fiscal year 2024 (to Oct. 31, 2024).” The connected devices and peripherals sector is still in a recovery phase, with a stabilization in the final quarter of 2023 including inventories, which are ending a period of downward correction. Growth in 2024 is in part reliant on new products as well as a renewal cycle for equipment bought during the pandemic era. Streaming media player producers Roku Inc. reported a 33% year-over-year increase in sales of devices including set-top boxes and branded televisions. That’s in part due to new products and a recovery in supply chain operations. Growth is expected to slow to a “low teens percentage” increase in the coming quarter. Videogame console maker Nintendo Co. Ltd. expects to sell 15 million units in the 12 months to March 31, 2023. That would imply a 28% year-over-year drop in shipments in the second half of the year after a 2% rise. That’s likely down to the age of the Switch console, as the firm prepares its next system as outlined in “ Time to level up: Videogame console supply chains .” Sony Corporation is relying on a revised PlayStation 5 and new PlayStation Portal to “assist us in 

increasing the sales momentum during the year-end selling season.” For TVs and audio the firm is “controlling sales risks and inventory risks” during the remainder of 2023. For phones, where it produces camera chips, the firm “sees signs that the demand decline I bottoming out in China and emerging markets (but) “the North America market shows signification year-on-year decline.” Gaming computer and peripherals supplier Corsair Gaming Inc. expects “all aspects of the hardware market to resume growth again” in the final quarter of 2023 after being “about 3% down” during the third quarter of 2023. In 2024, further growth is expected including an ongoing upgrade cycle linked to gamers who first bought equipment during the pandemic. Router specialist Netgear Inc. sees the “retain networking market is stabilizing” in part “as the WiFi 7 upgrade cycle begins to ramp.” The firm is also “making good progress in returning our inventory levels” to historic levels and expects “our inventory levels will return to normal by mid-2024.” Network equipment supplier Cisco Systems Inc. provided guidance for revenues in the three months to Jan. 31, 2023 of $12.6 billion to $12.8 billion, or 10% below the $14.2 billion expected by analysts. The firm’s “order lead times and backlog have largely returned to normal.” That’s come after the “bottleneck that we previously saw in the supply chain has now shifted downstream” to its customers as they install newly delivered equipment. The slowdown in the rate of decline of shipments across computing, phones and connected devices can be seen in US and EU imports. Across the four categories, imports fell by 10% year over year in the third quarter of 2023, Market Intelligence data shows, down from a 17% decline in the second quarter. In September alone there was a decline of 11%. The improvement has been led by percentage terms by videogame consoles, which rose by 23% in the third quarter, though the peak season rise of 6% in September suggests the recovery is already slowing. Shipments of phones recovered to a decline of 8% in the third quarter from 19% in the second quarter, though the annual peak is normally in October and November. Similarly for computers, a decline of 15% in the third quarter and 16% in September could rapidly change in the October/November peak. Optimistic for 2024, in places: Chip makers’ comments The decline in demand has been accompanied by a run-up in inventories. Several semiconductor producers expect a recovery in demand to help offset the higher inventories. Analysis of Market Intelligence machine readable corporate conference call filings using ProntoNLP’s natural language processing can be used to determine the positive or negative influence a topic is having on corporate earnings, as discussed in “ Positive about supply chains: Leveraging corporate commentary and earnings data .” The proportion of semiconductor firms in the Russell 3000 index making negative statements about inventories fell to 56% in the third quarter of 2023 from 84% in the first quarter of 2022. For calls held so far during the fourth quarter of 2023 (through Nov. 20) the proportion of firms making negative statements has dipped further to 52%. Looking ahead, many of the chipmakers — both in production and fabless models — expect demand to only catch up with supply and inventories in 2024. Among the makers of processors and foundry operators: Chipmaker Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company reported a 10.8% year-over-year decline in sales in the third quarter of 2023. For the coming quarter the firm expects its higher tech 3nm chip, used by Apple as outlined in “ Available in green: Supply chain facets of Apple Inc.’s latest products ,” to help growth. However, that will be “partially offset by customers’ continued inventory adjustment.” Intel Corporation has stated revenues will increase by 4.0% to 11.1% year over year in the fourth quarter of 2023, following an 8.0% decline in the third quarter. That’s included a “return of historical purchasing cycles” in the consumer business “point to 

healthy inventory levels and a return to growth.” On top of the normalization, the firm also cited AI investments and “Windows 10 end-of-service” related sales as drivers for 2024. Graphics processor specialist Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. provided guidance for revenues in the fourth quarter of 2023 of 9% growth, below the 14% shown in analysts’ expectations . While sales of the MI300 AI-focused chip and data center products are expected to increase, the firm expects “the Gaming segment to decline, given where we are in the console cycle.” Nvidia Corporation is something of an outlier in the sector thanks to the growth in demand from AI use cases for its graphics chips. The firm confirmed that sales to mainland China will be crimped by new US export rules, discussed in “ More laws: US extension of semiconductor export restraints .” As a result, its revenues in mainland China “will decline significantly in the fourth quarter, though we believe they'll be more than offset by strong growth in other regions.” Gaming applications are expected to “decline sequentially” in the coming quarter after a return to normal seasonality. Outsourced chip producer Globalfoundries Inc. expects “a return to year-over-year growth in 2024 will be contingent upon inventories significantly declining from their current levels and a concurrent marked recovery in global demand, particularly across consumer-centric end markets.” Mainland China-based Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation stated “the overall smartphone shipments for next year should be on par for this year.” In reference to chips for industrial and automotive applications the firm expects “demand for mature foundries will grow due to the declining inventories” though “we have seen drivers and momentum for significant growth.” The manufacturers of memory chips and storage devices have experienced the deepest downturn over the past two years as a result of the decline in demand for consumer applications including computers and phones. That can be seen most keenly in South Korea, where 55% of semiconductor exports were accounted for by memory chips in 2022, Market Intelligence data shows. Average South Korean semiconductor prices fell by 29% in the third quarter of 2023 versus the second quarter of 2022. They are expected to fall further in 2024 before recovering in 2025, Market Intelligence estimates show. Memory chip maker SK hynix Inc. reported revenues, which fell by 17% year over year in the third quarter of 2023. That was better than the 26% expected by analysts, in part thanks to 10% rise in average selling prices. The firm has noted that “supply remains tight versus demand” for AI applications while for more mature memory technologies “supply and demand is going to be somewhat balanced.” Memory chip maker Micron Technology Inc. expects market supply of memory chips “year over year growth in 2023 to be negative” for the market. The firm also anticipates its own production of DRAM to be “meaningfully negative” in the current calendar year while 2024 is “positioned to be a year of recovery.” Micron is therefore redeploying “underutilized equipment to support production ramp of leading-edge” products. Despite the redeployment and recovery Micron still expects “underutilization to continue well into 2024.” Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.’s memory chip business has “completed supply talks for next year … we expect the recovery trend in the memory market to accelerate.” The firm noted it already expects “demand from PC and mobile to improve as customer inventories have generally reached normal levels.” Disc-drive maker Western Digital Corporation believes that in terms of demand “the past quarter was the bottom … and we see improving demand as we move through the year in sequential terms.” Importantly their customers are “starting to give us visibility into ordering,” which may help the firm better plan its output as demand picks up. Storage device producer Sanmina Corporation anticipates a continued downturn in the coming quarter “as we 

expect customers to continue to adjust inventory levels, primarily in the communications end market as the supply chain has improved significantly.” It also expects “some headwinds for the next couple of quarters, driven by inventory adjustments.” Demand is expected to recover later in 2024. Producers of analog, signal processing, industrial controller and communications chips have seen weakness in industrial equipment and consumer products offset by the automotive sector. Strength in autos may be starting to abate in the fourth quarter, while some producers expect industrial weakness to reverse by early 2024. Analog and signal processor chipmaker Texas Instruments Inc. provided revenue guidance for the fourth quarter of 2023 that was below analysts’ forecasts by 9% at the mid-point. That follows a third quarter where “automotive growth continued and industrial weakness broadened.” The firm believes that “supply and demand has come into balance, or more close to balance.” Diversified chip maker STMicroelectronics N.V. reported revenues in the third quarter of 2023, which increased by 4.3%, beating expectations for 1.3% growth. That was due to “continued growth in Automotive, partially offset by lower revenues in Personal Electronics.” The firm nonetheless expects a 3% dip for the fourth quarter, as a result of industrial orders in Asia, which “has been below our expectations.” Power and sensing controller producer ON Semiconductor Corporation has cautioned that it is “starting to see pockets of softness with Tier 1 customers in Europe working through their inventory,” as well as risks from reduced demand for vehicles due to high interest rates. NXP Semiconductor N.V. forecasts revenue growth of 3% versus a year earlier in the fourth quarter, with automotive and internet-of-things revenues growing while mobile semiconductor sales still in decline. Functionally, “lead time have normalized” and the firm also “anticipates a more neutral price environment” after a period of discounting to cut inventories earlier in the year. Analog chip foundry Tower Semiconductor Ltd. expects unchanged revenues in the coming quarter as “the markets that we serve aren’t very strong” though “we are seeing rebounding … in in demand for switches and amplifiers.” For 2024, it is seeing increasing orders for new silicon photonic products used in data centers. Autos, industrial and data-center diversified supplier Infineon Technologies AG has noted its “customers’ ordering behavior is normalizing” with “many placing orders in a less long-term way.” The order backlog in its autos business is “more than double the division’s annual revenues” with customers making “request for additional buffer stocks.” In 2024, it expects “a slowdown in the orders for industrial applications such as automation and robotics.” Industrial automation and automotive focussed Analog Devices, Inc. expects “the customer inventory overhang to persist through the first half” of 2024. Industrial demand “is expected to be down the most, followed by Consumer and Comms with Automotive faring the best.” Silicon carbide fabrication specialist Wolfspeed, Inc. has noted that it sees “continued softer demand for industrial and energy products, primarily in mainland China and broader Asia markets” leading it to “repurpose the supply to where end demand remains strong.” Communications chip maker Qualcomm Incorporated has increased its outlook for mobile phone handset shipments to be down by a mid-to-high single digit percentage growth in 2023 and the firm has “seen stabilization in the market.” Its customers’ declining “inventory dynamics that we have seen within the Android business are largely behind us,” with notable growth from “Chinese OEMs of 35%.” Signal processor focussed Cirrus Logic, Inc. expects “inventory levels to remain elevated through the 12 months to March 2024 as we balance anticipated product demand and wafer purchase commitments” under its purchase agreement with GlobalFoundries. The firm has also noted that working with mainland China OEMs 

become a more difficult environment to do business.” Imports of semiconductors to mainland China fell by 10% year over year in October 2023, Market Intelligence data shows. That followed a 15% drop in the third quarter of 2023, which was led by a 22% drop in memory chips. The export restrictions noted above may not have a noticeable effect in the aggregate given their limitation to the highest end graphics processors. Cautious about recovery: Upstream suppliers’ comments Suppliers of chemicals and bonding materials to the semiconductor sector have suffered from a period of destocking, which has now stabilized with some signs of growth returning. DuPont de Nemours, Inc. stated that supplies of its chemicals used in interconnect solutions in the “third-quarter volume were lower than expected” due to “inventory destocking.” However, the firm is “seeing signs of demand stabilization within semiconductor end-markets” and as such expects “electronics submarkets going to recovery by 2024” including “replacement demand” for computers and phones. 3M Company is “starting to see some stability in electronics” demand, which includes adhesives, screen coatings and electro-conductive tapes. The firm believes this is due in part to “destocking (which) seems to have slowed down.” Supplies of hydrofluoric acid, used in the process of etching and cleaning process for silicon chip production as well as other industrial processes, continue to decline but at a slowing rate. Global exports fell by 12% year over year in September, according to Market Intelligence data . That was the second slowest decline in a year, with shipments to all four major importing centers showing a similar pattern. The chipmaking equipment firms expect orders and sales to restart only cautiously during 2024. That comes as they also attempt to hurdle geopolitical challenges, as outlined in “ Time, tariffs and tracking: Fourth quarter 2023 supply chain outlook .” Semiconductor equipment manufacturer ASML NV reported a drop in new orders to €2.6 billion in the third quarter of 2023 from €4.5 billion in the second quarter. The firm has nonetheless noted “currently working through the bottom of the cycle and our customers expect the inflection point to be visible by the end of this year.” It sees 2024 “as a transition year” before “significant growth that we expect for 2025.” Wafer machine maker Lam Research Corporation has stated that it expects “spending will come back cautiously” in 2024 following a revenue decline of 31% year over year in the third quarter of 2023. Accelerated growth in 2025 is expected with “a lot of fabs opening” and demand recovering. Tokyo Electron Limited increased its forecasts for the 12 months to March 31, 2023 after better-than-expected sales to mainland China customers in the first half of the year. The firm’s guidance nonetheless still only expects sales in the six months to March 31, 2023 (fiscal second half) to decline by 11% year over year. That nonetheless includes a 58% recovery in DRAM equipment supplies as the memory market starts to recover. 

